Lab 1 - SQL
Purpose of this lab is to use the knowledge of SQL and relational database learnt from this course to find
insights from DVD rental data. You are a data analyst in a DVD rental company. There is some legacy data
stored in sqlite database, your manager "The Manager" asks you to migrate it to duckdb, analyze them and
present the insights to The Manager. Create a public github repo to save your work over the entire project.
Task 0 - data ingestion
We will be using the Sakila database which we have gone through in lecture 11-12 and 17-20. Follow the
instruction in the lecture materials in the course repo to create a duckdb database file using the Sakila
database data from kaggle.
You can follow 18_pandas_duckdb to load the sakila sqlite database into a duckdb database file.
NOTE
If you aim for VG and want to do task 3 (BI report), you can follow the instruction in lecture 19 to load
sakila sqlite into duckdb using data load tool (dlt).
Task 1 - EDA in python
The Manager would like you to explore the data and analyze the questions below. He wants you to make it in
jupyter notebook so that the team can directly see the results of your EDA. Combine duckdb and pandas to
do the EDA.
It's important that you show the answers, i.e. run your cells with outputs directly in the notebook.
a) Which movies are longer than 3 hours (180 minutes), show the title and its length?
b) Which movies have the word "love" in its title? Show the following columns
title
rating
length
description
c) Calculate descriptive statistics on the length column, The Manager wants, shortest, average, median and
longest movie length
d) The rental rate is the cost to rent a movie and the rental duration is the number of days a customer can
keep the movie. The Manager wants to know the 10 most expensive movies to rent per day.
e) Which actors have played in most movies? Show the top 10 actors with the number of movies they have
played in.
f) Now it's time for you to choose your own question to explore the sakila database! Write down 3-5
questions you want to answer and then answer them using pandas and duckdb.
1 / 3
Task 2 - graphs
Kokchun Giang
Projekt
Also, on the same 
.ipynb
 file, the The Manager wants to see some meaningful graphs from each of the
dataframe.
a) Who are our top 5 customers by total spend? The Manager wants to know so that they can reward them
with special offers. Create a bar chart showing the top 5 customers by total spend.
b) How much money does each film category bring in? Make a bar chart showing total revenue per film
category.
Hint: join category -> film_category -> film -> inventory -> rental -> 
payment 
Task 3 (Bonus) - BI report
In lecture 20_evidence_dashboard, we have built a simple dashboard using evidence and duckdb on the
Sakila database. The Manager wants some of your findings from task 1 and 2 to be included in the
dashboard. Make sure to combine relevant text, tables and graphs. Also feel free to add more analysis and
graphs to the dashboard.
Task 4 - video for stakeholder presentation
Create a video 5-10 min long where you record the screen and you go through your repository and solutions
to the taks. Your target audience should be The Manager and its data team. Explain with correct computer
science terminology but keep it simple.
The Manager and the team have limited amount of time, so keep the time limit stated above. If you have
done task 3, you should present it in the video as well both a demo and short explanation of the code
structure.
For simplicity use microsoft teams and open up a meeting with yourself, then share screen and record.
Afterwards download the video file and upload to your learning platform. If the file size is too big then you
could upload it to youtube but keep it unlisted. Or use google drive, onedrive, dropbox or similar, but make
sure that anyone with the link can view the file.